Well I've taken some time and worked on the little tunic here.
Let me press alt Allt to center that up and zoom in and tumble around that you can see I've just tried
to highlight the folds by painting on some shadow and some highlights here just to try and have the
textures emphasize or be compatible with the normal map.
I think today I'm going to work on the boots of the character down here.
You can see I've got kind of a reference image here for the boots.
These are not exactly the same of course but I like the different colors here I like the textures and
the different shades between the boot and the straps.
I'm going to switch back over to the other color palette that I was using.
I'm on the cloth one now with these colors on the switch back over to the straps and metal one.
And here are the colors that I used mainly for the leather.
However now that I think about it I may just want to begin sampling new colors right off here.
So let's go ahead and create a new palette.
Let's do that because these colors aren't really doing it for me I think.
I want to sample it right off of there.
So I'm going to come over here and click the plus create a new palette and let's just call this boots.
Right now I'm not going to need this texture on the brush or just get rid of that.
And let's start picking some new colors here.
I like this dark color on top of this boot over here where it's worn like that one.
Let's see if I can get that one to hold the key down and see if I can find that color.
How about that.
That's kind of nice.
Let's go with that.
Let's look for a lighter color now in here.
Maybe something in the range of here
like that.
Let's start working with those.
So now even though I didn't want that particular texture on the brush I do think I am going to need
a texture whether be image based or procedural.
Here's a nice one let me go back to this one.
That's kind of nice.
Let's change the brush mapping to random.
Let's increase the jitter a bit.
Increase the spacing a bit.
So we kind of lay it down in a relatively random way.
We've got the dark color on here.
Let's go ahead and mask this.
I'll come down here to the face masking make sure that nothing selected with the key and I'll hover
over that and hit the LP here.
Let's try this and maybe even down here.
So let's try this.
I'll just draw that down and yeah you can see I'm getting some Yeah I'm getting some kind of blotching
is there that's kind of good.
Let me go find where the boot is I think this is it here.
All right.
So let's see what we can do.
I'm going to increase the brush size and just do some random painting on here just to get kind of a
worn look.
I mean do some down here as well on the soul.
Probably not going to see that ever.
But that's OK.
We know it's there.
All right.
So now we've got some of that dark color.
Now let's go back to the light and I'm going to reduce the jitter reduce the spacing a bit and let's
see what I can do with this.
Now I'm just looking for a very light striations here.
And some of this is going to be covered up by the straps and that's fine.
But maybe try and emphasize some of the wrinkles going across here.
And maybe scuff marks along the toes I'm seeing here
let me bring that strength down a bit with shift F and pull out a bit to reduce the strength
and then I'll try and highlight some of these areas as well.
The wrinkles on the back.
All right.
So there we're beginning to get some of the texture on there some of that light scuff mark type of texture
and I feel like I do need it up on top a bit maybe where he pulls on the boot and it gets worn a bit
up here.
So we've got that dark color and the light color.
There's also this reddish that seems to be a different color than the base.
Let me capture some of that right in here.
And let's use this for this.
I think I will increase the jitter a little bit more increase the spacing some and lay this down kind
of wire like this.
Let's try this and see how it works.
All right let's take a look at creating these straps.
I think I'm just going to go ahead and paint directly on.
I might even create a new slot just in case.
I kind of messed something up.
So I'm going to go ahead and create a new texture slot right here and I'm going to do this just so I
have more control I can adjust the blend mode and I can erase when I need to.
And I'll just call this straps.
And of course we need to be sure and change the alpha here and I click on the color swatch and take
the alpha down all the way.
So we're painting through it and can see the other layers beneath it.
I think I've been using 2048.
All right.
Let's do that.
And click OK.
So here is my new paint Lehre.
I'm going to switch back to my boots here and let's go back to the Tools tab and let me sample this.
This looks a lot lighter or a little bit different than that other light color so I'll grab that.
And let's come in here and see if we can do.
Looks like the strength is a little too strong.
I'll bring that down.
And let's go in and try this.
Yes I'm going to use this I think to work on these straps here.
Again I don't know I'll be going down here.
Let's see how what we can do with this.
Yes I'm going to continue with this.
I'm going to continue painting those straps.
I'm also probably going to have to come in and do a little dark line shading to separate the strap from
the rest of the boot.
And I think I'll also be able to adjust the blend mode of the layer down here.
I don't know we can try multiply.
Now that's not going to work.
About screen we can try some different types of overlays.
That's not bad to see what we can get.
That's not even too bad either.
So I'll be working with these blend types as well.
So I'll go ahead and begin working on this hopefully try and finish up the boot so we can move on to
another part of the character in the next video.